doc: add formatting example (#15)
AndreFavotto/epicsMQTT: README.md

}
```

Example (with formatting):

```console
# Device sends a JSON array as input, where this record handles the 0-th item
record(ai, "$(P)$(R)Example-RB") {
    field(DTYP, "asynFloat64")
    field(INP,  "@asyn($(PORT)) JSON:FLOAT $(MQTT_TOPIC)/get /0")
    field(SCAN, "I/O Intr")
}

# User may set a value through this record
record(ao, "$(P)$(R)Example-SP") {
    field(FLNK, "$(P)$(R)#Example-Fmt")
}

# When user sets a value, scalcout is used to convert value into expected JSON
# format. There is length limit in CALC field, so it may be necessary to split
# formatting into multiple scalcout records.
record(scalcout, "$(P)$(R)#Example-Fmt") {
    field(INPA, "$(P)$(R)Example-SP")
    field(CALC, "'['+printf('$(FORMATTER)',A)+']\n'")
    field(OUT,  "$(P)$(R)#Example-TX")
    field(FLNK, "$(P)$(R)#Example-TX")
}

> # scalcout does not support writing to asyn. An intermediate stringout is used

Reviewer: I didn't notice this in the other MR, sorry, but I seem to remember using scalcout with streamDevice... so I would expect it to work here as well. I'll try to run some tests. 
Meanwhile can you share some logs of what you have seen while testing scalcout directly?

Author: There isn't much log to share, I get an error at the start of iocsh like this:

```
bash ❯ iocsh st.cmd
// ---snip---
############################################################################
## EPICS R7.0.9
## Rev. 2026-04-14T07:19+0000
## Rev. Date build date/time:
############################################################################
ERROR: #MotorDirection-Fmt.OUT: can't initialize link type CONSTANT with "@asyn(mqtt) FLAT:STRING path/to/channel" (type INST_IO)
```

And it won't send the message to the MQTT broker when invoked

Reviewer: `link type CONSTANT` is unexpected, is `DTYP` on your scalcout set to `asynOctetWrite`?

Author: Ah, right. Still the did not work.

```
Can't set "#MotorDirection-Fmt.DTYP" to "asynOctetWrite" no such device support for 'scalcout' record type : Illegal choice
    Did you mean "Soft Channel"?
ERROR:  at or before ')' in path "."  file "records.db" line 82

 82 |     field(DTYP, "asynOctetWrite")

ERROR failed to load 'records.db'
```

Where 
```
record(scalcout, "#MotorDirection-Fmt") {
    field(DTYP, "asynOctetWrite")
    field(DESC, "Motor direction")
    field(INPA, "#MotorDirection-Cvt")
    field(CALC, "'[' + printf('%i',A) + ']\n'")
    field(OUT,  "@asyn($(PORT)) FLAT:STRING path/to/channel")
}
```

Reviewer: Ok, I assume you are running in an e3 env, right? I believe this is related to the asyn build we use @ ESS

Asyn can be optionally built and linked against CALC to add support for sCalcout, see: https://github.com/epics-modules/asyn/blob/master/configure/RELEASE#L20
However, in our recipe, it seems like calc is not a dep: https://gitlab.esss.lu.se/e3/recipes/asyn-recipe/-/blob/master/recipe/meta.yaml?ref_type=heads. I also do not see it in the Makefile or inherited from somewhere else.

@simon-ess, @anderslindho,  is it intentional to not have calc added to asyn in ESS e3 build?

Reviewer 2: Great question. No one has yet requested it, so we left it out as a dependency. Perhaps it is time to reconsider that!

Ideally it would be possible to do multiple builds of asyn depending on the _other_ dependencies, but to the best of my knowledge that is not possible.

Reviewer: Yeah I also think it is not possible with conda, unfortunately. I can see the tradeoff of both building it with or without calc by default for e3. I can create a ticket in our gitlab so we can discuss this better.

@essioc, in the meantime, could you just update the comment removing the "scalcout does not support writing to asyn." part?
Could be something like:

```suggestion
# Use an intermediate stringout record if asyn is not built with calc support
```

Reviewer 3: The username @essioc is making me very confused 😅

Reviewer 2: Indeed! Who _is_ that????

Author: @simon-ess It is my somewhat anonymous handle (the commits contain email and name anyway) I created for ESS related pull requests, I picked a short string based on what was floating on my mind at that time...

@AndreFavotto Suggestion applied!
